docs(blog): Jest 27 blog post (#11131)
facebook/jest: website/blog/2021-02-22-jest-27.md

---

> title: Jest 27: Leaving the past behind ⏩

Author: symbolic placement of the emoji on the very right unlike the other posts :P

Author: not sure if the title sounds a bit negative, it's not like Jest's past years are something you'd wanna leave behind :see_no_evil: 
but maybe I'm just overly cautious, with things like `jest-jasmine2` leaving them behind is def the goal :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: I agree it's a bit negative. What about something forward looking like:
* New Foundations
* Looking ahead
* New Defaults for Jest #2 (Could add a nice callback to https://jestjs.io/blog/2016/09/01/jest-15 and specifically point out how we do this to keep Jest relevant and fast?)

Author: I was specifically trying to avoid 'foundations for the future' type of things because that was the title of the 25 blog post already :sweat_smile: but yeah I'll come up with something probably based on the third suggestion :+1:

Author: Changed :+1:

---

In the [Jest 26 blog post](https://jestjs.io/blog/2020/05/05/jest-26) almost a year ago, we announced that after two major releases with few breaking changes, Jest 27 would flip some switches to set better defaults for projects that are new or can migrate smoothly. This will then also give us the opportunity in Jest 28 to remove some packages from the default distribution of Jest and publish them as separately installable and pluggable modules instead, so that everyone on the new defaults can benefit from a smaller install size.

We will explain those changes of defaults and other notable breaking changes in this post, but first, let's get into some exciting new features shipping in Jest 27!

<!--truncate-->

## Feature updates

Firstly, the interactive mode you may know from reviewing and updating failed snapshots can now also be used to **step through failed tests** one at a time. Credit goes to first-time contributor [@NullDivision](https://github.com/NullDivision) for [implementing](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/10858) this feature! ![Interactive failed test run](/img/blog/27-interactive-failures.png)

> Speaking of snapshots, one of the more exciting features we've shipped in recent years are Inline Snapshots, which [landed](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/6380) in a minor release of Jest 23 almost three years ago. However, they came with the restriction that projects wanting to utilize them must be using [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) to format their code, because that's what Jest would use to make sure the file it writes the snapshots into remains properly formatted.  

Author: I'm very attached to the way the inline snapshots and perf improvements paragraphs flow, please be nice when reviewing :stuck_out_tongue_closed_eyes:

## Features coming with breaking changes

We introduced a few more small breaking changes to help you avoid mistakes by disallowing some things that can easily happen unintentionally:

- The same `done` test callback may not be called more than once,
- calling `done` and returning a Promise may not be combined,
- a `describe` block must not return anything,

and we [made some TypeScript types stricter](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/10512).

Modules used in the following configuration options are now transformed like the rest of your code, which may be breaking if you relied on them being loaded as-is:

- `testEnvironment`
- `runner`
- `testRunner`
- `snapshotResolver` <!-- TODO pending merge https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/8829 -->

## Miscellaneous breaking changes

We removed some long-deprecated functions:

- `jest.addMatchers` (use `expect.extend` instead)
- `jest.resetModuleRegistry` (use `jest.resetModules` instead)
- `jest.runTimersToTime` (use `jest.advanceTimersByTime` instead)

> A lot of Jest's packages have been migrated to use ESM exports, so if you consume them directly, you may need to adjust your imports.

Author: Are these changes expected to cause many `.default` problems @SimenB? I didn't follow closely. If so I should perhaps expand a bit on this

Reviewer 2: Nah, I don't think so. Can ask people to check the changelog for modules they use (`pretty-format` and `jest-diff` comes to mind)?

Author: But basically, for people who do `const format = require('pretty-format'); format(42);`, they will need to add a `.default` or `interopRequireDefault` or the likes, right? Just wanna make sure I understand the implication correctly

Reviewer 2: yep!

Specifically for  `pretty-format` one can do `const {format} = require('pretty-format')`, but in general the diff will mostly be adding an `.default`

Author: I'll clarify a little

---
title: Jest 27: Leaving the past behind ⏩
author: Tim Seckinger
authorURL: https://github.com/jeysal
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/16069751
---

> In the [Jest 26 blog post](https://jestjs.io/blog/2020/05/05/jest-26) almost a year ago, we announced that after two major releases with few breaking changes, Jest 27 would flip some switches to set better defaults for projects that are new or can migrate smoothly. This will then also give us the opportunity in Jest 28 to remove some packages from the default distribution of Jest and publish them as separately installable and pluggable modules instead, so that everyone on the new defaults can benefit from a smaller install size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [Jest 26 blog post](https://jestjs.io/blog/2020/05/05/jest-26) almost a year ago, we announced that after two major releases with few breaking changes, Jest 27 will flip some switches to set better defaults for projects that are new or can migrate smoothly. This gives us the opportunity to remove some packages from the default distribution of Jest 28 and publish them as separately installable and pluggable modules instead. Everyone on the new defaults can benefit from a smaller install size, while people needing these packages can still install them separately.
```

> We will explain those changes of defaults and other notable breaking changes in this post, but first, let's get into some exciting new features shipping in Jest 27!

Reviewer: I recommend swapping this. Talk about the new defaults first (that's the intent of the blog post) and features second.

Author: Hmm, problem I see with that is it would split breaking changes from sections 2,3,4 to sections 1,3,4. Also think it's good to show off some nice free stuff first, because to some people breaking changes will always look like an annoyance even if they are well-reasoned.

And so for most of these years, we've had a [pull request](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/7792) in the pipeline to eliminate this restriction and allow using **Inline Snapshots without Prettier**. It has amassed well above a hundred comments, not even taking into account PRs split out from it and landed first, and even changed owner once after the initial submission by another first-time contributor, [@mmkal](https://github.com/mmkal) under the hilarious working title 'Uglier Inline Snapshots'. With the stellar rise of Prettier in recent times, this improvement is now maybe less needed than back in 2018, but still, we know that feeling of getting into a project that does not use Prettier, and suddenly not being able to use inline snapshots anymore. Nevermore!

The main reason why it took us so long to land this was, somewhat surprisingly, an out of memory error on our build pipeline. It turns out that the dependencies we load for each test file to perform the parsing, snapshot insertion, and printing do incur a significant time and memory overhead.  

> So with some [tricks](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9898), we've **sped up the initialization per test file** by roughly 70% compared to Jest 26. Note that you will almost certainly not see this big of a performance improvement on your project—you would need a lot of test files that each run very quickly to best notice this, and the overhead when using a [JSDOM environment](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) dwarfs any such improvement.

Reviewer: Nice!

> In other news, the [native ESM support](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9430) is progressing, but some major complexities, for instance around mocking, are still ahead of us, and we continue to observe the migration to ESM as a huge ecosystem effort, where Node and a lot of crucial tools and packages all have to rely on each other to deliver an overall compelling experience.

Reviewer 2: I plan to land async transforms, which will unblock using `esbuild`. probably worth a mention 🙂

Author: Oh, I didn't know `esbuild` was a reason to do that one? Don't personally use it, but seems like `esbuild` has both sync and async APIs in their docs?

Reviewer 2: not _the_ reason, but unblocking usage of modern transpilers and bundlers is a big part of it.

And yes, it _can_ be used synchronously, but then it won't work with plugins. Other transpilers/bundlers to call out might be `vite` or `snowpack`

Author: Adding :+1:

<!-- TODO pending merge https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/9351 -->

We've also merged [a PR](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/9351) to be able to deal with test files symlinked into the test directory, a feature much wanted by users of [Bazel](https://bazel.build/).

## Flipping defaults

Up until now, if you were using Jest in its default configuration, you were—perhaps unknowingly—running some code forked many years ago from the test runner [Jasmine 2.0](https://jasmine.github.io/2.0/introduction) that provides test framework functions such as `describe`, `it`, and `beforeEach`. In 2017, [Aaron Abramov](https://github.com/aaronabramov) [initially wrote](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/3668) a **replacement for the Jasmine code** called `jest-circus`, meant to improve error messages, maintainability, and extensibility.  

> After years of large-scale use at Facebook, and of course in Jest itself, it is now quite battle-tested and for the most part compatible with `jest-jasmine2`. There may be minor differences in execution order and strictness, but we expect no major upgrade difficulties other than for code relying on Jasmine-specific APIs such as `jasmine.getEnv()`. If you rely extensively on such APIs, you can opt back in to the Jasmine-based test runner by [configuring](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testrunner-string) `"testRunner": "jest-jasmine2"`.

Reviewer: Let's not use "battle-tested". Maybe "we are confident that it is highly compatible with `jest-jasmine2` and should work in most environments with little migration work."

Author: Yeah that sounds really really great, thanks, committed! :+1:

> After years of large-scale use at Facebook, and of course in Jest itself, we are now confident that it is highly compatible with `jest-jasmine2` and should work in most environments with little to no migration work. There may be minor differences in execution order and strictness, but we expect no major upgrade difficulties other than for code relying on Jasmine-specific APIs such as `jasmine.getEnv()`. If you rely extensively on such APIs, you can opt back in to the Jasmine-based test runner by [configuring](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testrunner-string) `"testRunner": "jest-jasmine2"`.

Reviewer 2: CRA v4 uses circus by default, might be worth a mention?

> It was mentioned previously that running tests in a [JSDOM environment](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) incurs a significant performance overhead. Because this was the default behavior of Jest unless otherwise configured up until now, users who are writing Node apps, for example, may not even know they are given an expensive DOM environment that they do not even need.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running tests in a [JSDOM environment](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) incurs a significant performance overhead. Because this was the default behavior of Jest unless otherwise configured up until now, users who are writing Node apps, for example, may not even know they are given an expensive DOM environment that they do not even need.  
```

> Running tests in a [JSDOM environment](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) incurs a significant performance overhead. Because this was the default behavior of Jest unless otherwise configured up until now, users who are writing Node apps, for example, may not even know they are given an expensive DOM environment that they do not even need.  

Reviewer 2: something about "plain javascript can run on node-like env, only when using browser APIs is jsom needed"? I.e. even _if_ you need JSDOM for some of your tests, you should probably use node as the default and turn on jsdom for the ones that need it

Author: Yeah that's a good idea to mention, I also think for projects where JSDOM is only required in some tests, Node as a performant default is good

For this reason, we are **changing the default test environment** from `"jsdom"` to `"node"`. If you are affected by this change because you use DOM APIs and do not have the test environment explicitly configured, you should be receiving an error when e.g. `document` is accessed, and you can configure `"testEnvironment": "jsdom"` or use [per-file environment configuration](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) to resolve this.  

> In the next major, we can now also eliminate `jest-jasmine2` and `jest-environment-jsdom` from the Jest dependency tree and require them to be installed explicitly, so that many users can profit from a smaller install size with less clutter that they don't need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the next major, we plan to eliminate `jest-jasmine2` and `jest-environment-jsdom` from the Jest dependency tree and require them to be installed explicitly, so that many users can profit from a smaller install size with less clutter that they don't need.
```

Reviewer 2: A relatively quick 28 which drops node 10 and these modules from the default dep tree sounds like a good idea to me 😀

> Another default that we are changing affects Fake Timers aka [Timer Mocks](https://jestjs.io/docs/en/timer-mocks). We introduced an opt-in "modern" implementation of Fake Timers in Jest 26 accessed transparently through the same API, but with much more comprehensive mocking, such as for `Date` and `queueMicrotask`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another default that we are changing affects Fake Timers aka [Timer Mocks](docs/en/timer-mocks). We introduced an opt-in "modern" implementation of Fake Timers in Jest 26 accessed transparently through the same API, but with much more comprehensive mocking, such as for `Date` and `queueMicrotask`.  
```

I think?

Author: Seems very mixed/inconsistent in existing md files. But yeah probably better

So with some [tricks](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9898), we've **sped up the initialization per test file** by roughly 70% compared to Jest 26. Note that you will almost certainly not see this big of a performance improvement on your project—you would need a lot of test files that each run very quickly to best notice this, and the overhead when using a [JSDOM environment](/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) dwarfs any such improvement.

In other news, the [native ESM support](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9430) is progressing, but some major complexities, for instance around mocking, are still ahead of us, and we continue to observe the migration to ESM as a huge ecosystem effort, where Node and a lot of crucial tools and packages all have to rely on each other to deliver an overall compelling experience.

<!-- TODO pending merge https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/9351 -->
We've also merged [a PR](https://github.com/facebook/jest/pull/9351) to be able to deal with test files symlinked into the test directory, a feature much wanted by users of [Bazel](https://bazel.build/).

<!-- TODO pending merge https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9504 -->

> [Another PR](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9504) enabled [`transform`s](/docs/en/configuration#transform-objectstring-pathtotransformer--pathtotransformer-object) to be asynchronous, a requirement to support transpilation through tools such as [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), [Snowpack](https://www.snowpack.dev/), and [Vite](https://www.snowpack.dev/) effectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Another PR](https://github.com/facebook/jest/issues/9504) enabled [`transform`s](/docs/en/configuration#transform-objectstring-pathtotransformer--pathtotransformer-object) to be asynchronous, a requirement to support transpilation through tools such as [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), [Snowpack](https://www.snowpack.dev/), and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) effectively.
```

Author: Oops

After years of large-scale use at Facebook and of course in Jest itself, as well as recent adoption in `create-react-app`, we are now confident that `jest-circus` is highly compatible with `jest-jasmine2` and should work in most environments with little to no migration work. There may be minor differences in execution order and strictness, but we expect no major upgrade difficulties other than for code relying on Jasmine-specific APIs such as `jasmine.getEnv()`. If you rely extensively on such APIs, you can opt back in to the Jasmine-based test runner by [configuring](/docs/en/configuration#testrunner-string) `"testRunner": "jest-jasmine2"`.

Running tests in a [JSDOM environment](/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) incurs a significant performance overhead. Because this was the default behavior of Jest unless otherwise configured up until now, users who are writing Node apps, for example, may not even know they are given an expensive DOM environment that they do not even need.  

> For this reason, we are **changing the default test environment** from `"jsdom"` to `"node"`. If you are affected by this change because you use DOM APIs and do not have the test environment explicitly configured, you should be receiving an error when e.g. `document` is accessed, and you can configure `"testEnvironment": "jsdom"` or use [per-file environment configuration](/docs/en/configuration#testenvironment-string) to resolve this.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this reason, we are **changing the default test environment** from `"jsdom"` to `"node"`. If you are affected by this change because you use DOM APIs and do not have the test environment explicitly configured, you should be receiving an error when e.g. `document` is accessed, and you can configure `"testEnvironment": "jsdom"` or use [per-file environment configuration](Configuration#testenvironment-string) to resolve this.  
```

is the generated html linking correctly with this?

this might also be different with docusaurs 2, I'll try to land that PR this coming week

Author: Yeah let's wait for docu v2, gotta double check how it looks once that is done anyway

Author: Nope, doesn't

Reviewer 2: It should work if you include `.md`

Reviewer 2: And if not, should remove the `en` to skip a redirect

Author: There's no `en` on any link other than the one to `nodejs.org` o.O that was pre Docu v2

Author: And nope, that just gets you http://localhost:3000/blog/2021/03/11/Configuration.md#testenvironment-string

Author: You get cannot resolve errors in the console. Could be because blog isn't the same folder idk

Reviewer 2: ah, might be 👍
